[MKC-1671] Add Getting started guide UNO R3 (#2008)
arduino/docs-content: content/hardware/02.hero/boards/uno-rev3/tutorials/getting-started/getting-started.md

---
title: Getting Started with Arduino UNO R3
description: A step-by-step guide to get started with the Arduino UNO R3.
author: Jacob Hylén
tags: [UNO R3, Installation, IDE]
---

> To use the [Arduino UNO R3](/hardware/uno-rev3/) board, you will need the Arduino AVR Board Package, which comes preinstalled with the IDE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the [Arduino UNO R3](/hardware/uno-rev3/) board, you will need the Arduino AVR Board Package, which comes pre-installed with the IDE.
```

You will need a version of the Arduino IDE, which you can download from the [Arduino Software page](https://www.arduino.cc/en/software). In this guide, we will use the latest version of the IDE 2.

## Software & Hardware Needed

- [Arduino UNO R3](https://store.arduino.cc/products/arduino-uno-rev3)
- [Arduino IDE](/software/ide-v2)

***You can also use the [Cloud Editor](https://create.arduino.cc/editor) which comes with all Arduino boards pre-installed.*** 

## Download & Install IDE

1. First, we need to download the Arduino IDE, which can be done from the [Arduino Software page](https://www.arduino.cc/en/software/).
2. Install the Arduino IDE on your local machine.
3. Open the Arduino IDE.

![The Arduino IDE.](./assets/open-ide.png)

## Board Package

> The [Arduino Core for AVR devices](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-avr) comes preinstalled with the IDE, so no additional installation is necessary to get started.  To use a different version than the latest, open the "Board Manager" from the left-hand menu. Search for AVR and install the version you want to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Arduino Core for AVR devices](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-avr) comes pre-installed with the IDE, so no additional installation is necessary to get started. To use a different version than the latest, open the "Board Manager" from the left-hand menu. Search for AVR and install the version you want to use.
```
